HELP.md, before:

# Coconut Tutorial

This tutorial will teach you how to write elegant, Pythonic code in a functional style using the [Coconut Programming Language](https://github.com/evhub/coconut). It is assumed that the reader knows some basic Python, but no other prior knowledge or experience is required.

- [I. Getting Started](#i-getting-started)
    - [Install Coconut](#install-coconut)
    - [Set Up a Workspace](#set-up-a-workspace)
    - [Start Coding!](#start-coding)
    - [Understanding Compiled Code](#understanding-compiled-code)
    - [Understanding Compiled Folders](#understanding-compiled-folders)
    - [Compile a Folder!](#compile-a-folder)
    - [Play Around!](#play-around)
- [II. Functions](#ii-functions)
    - [Lambdas](#lambdas)
    - [Partial Application](#partial-application)
    - [Function Composition](#function-composition)
    - [Pipe Forward](#pipe-forward)
    - [Operator Functions](#operator-functions)
    - [Backtick Calling](#backtick-calling)
    - [Function Definition](#function-definition)
    - [reduce](#reduce)
- [III. Iterators](#iii-iterators)
    - [Slicing](#slicing)
    - [Chaining](#chaining)
- [IV. Values](#iv-values)
    - [data](#data)
    - [match](#match)
    - [case](#case)
- [V. Further Reading](#v-further-reading)

## I. Getting Started

### Install Coconut

The first thing you're going to need to do is install Coconut. Since Coconut is hosted on the [Python Package Index](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/coconut), it can be installed easily using `pip`. Simply install [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/), open up a command line prompt, and enter the following:
```
python -m pip install coconut
```

To test that `coconut` is working, make sure the Coconut command-line help appears when you enter into the command line:
```
coconut -h
```

### Set Up a Workspace

Now that you've installed Coconut, it's time to create your first Coconut program. Open up your favorite text editor and save a new file named `tutorial.coc`. It is recommended that you tell your text editor to treat all `.coc` files as Python source files for the purpose of syntax highlighting (Coconut and Python are close enough that this will work). All Coconut files should use the extension `.coc` so they can be recognized as such when compiling folders of many different files.

### Start Coding!

If you're familiar with Python, then you're already familiar with most of Coconut. Coconut is nearly a strict superset of Python 3 syntax, with the sole exception of `lambda` statements, which will be later in this tutorial. For now, let's start with a simple `hello, world!` program. Put this code inside your `tutorial.coc`:
```
print("hello, world!")
```

Now it's time to compile the file and run it to test that it works. Open up your command line and enter in:
```
cd <tutorial.coc directory>
coconut tutorial.coc
python tutorial.py
```

If everything is working properly, you should see something like this:
```
$ coconut tutorial.coc
Coconut: Compiling '<tutorial.coc directory>'...
Coconut: Compiled '<tutorial.py directory>'.
$ python tutorial.py
hello, world!
```

### Understanding Compiled Code

If you look in your `tutorial.coc` directory, you should notice that a new file, `tutorial.py` was created when you ran the compiler. That file contains the compiled Python code, which was why you had to enter `python tutorial.py` instead of `python tutorial.coc` to run it.

Open `tutorial.py` and look inside. You should see two sections, `Coconut Header` and `Compiled Coconut`. The `Coconut Header` section contains code inserted into all compiled coconut files, whereas the `Compiled Coconut` section contains the specific code the compiler produced from your source file.

### Understanding Compiled Folders

You might have noticed that the `Coconut Header` section in `tutorial.py` is somewhat large (while Coconut tries to keep the size small, there's only so much it can do). This is because that section contains all the code necessary to set up the Coconut environment. Because Coconut needs to set up that environment in every file, it puts a header at the top.

It would be rather innefficient, however, if Coconut put that entire header in every file of a module (or other folder of files that are intended to stay together). Instead, when compiling a folder, Coconut puts all of that code in a `__coconut__.py` file in the folder directory.

### Compile a Folder!

To compile a folder this way, simply call the `coconut` command with the folder directory as the first argument. Go ahead and try it on the `tutorial.coc` directory:
```
coconut <tutorial.coc directory>
cd <tutorial.coc directory>
python tutorial.py
```
If everything is working properly, you should see exactly the same output as before.

If you now go into the `tutorial.coc` directory, however, you should see a new file, `__coconut__.py`, which contains the header from earlier in non-class form, and if you now open the `tutorial.py` file, you should see a significantly shortened header that imports the larger header file.

_Note: When compiling modules, one will often want to compile to a different location than the source. To accomplish this, simply pass the destination directory as the second argument to `coconut`, like so:_
```
coconut <source directory> <destination directory>
```

### Play Around!

As this tutorial starts introducing new concepts, it'll be useful to be able to enter Coconut code and have it compiled and run on the fly. To do this, you can start the Coconut interpreter by entering `coconut` into the console with no arguments.

## II. Functions

### Lambdas

Now that you've gotten your feet wet with a simple `hello, world!` program, but before we delve into the special things Coconut can do that Python can't, we should cover the one exception to the rule of Coconut being a strict superset of Python: lambdas.

In Python, lambdas are ugly and bulky, requiring the entire word `lambda` to be written out every time one is constructed. This is fine if in-line functions are very rarely needed, but in functional programming in-line functions are an essential tool, and so Coconut substitues in a much simpler lambda syntax: the `->` operator.

Just to demonstrate the lambda syntax, try modifying your `hello, world!` program by adding a function defined with a lambda that prints `"hello, "+arg+"!"`, and call it with `"lambdas"` as the `arg`:
```
hello = (arg="world") -> print("hello, "+arg+"!")   # Coconut still supports Python's "def" blocks,
hello("lambdas")                                    #  but we're trying to demonstrate lambdas here
```

Then run it and test that it works:
```
$ coconut tutorial.coc
...
$ python tutorial.py
hello, lambdas!
```

### Partial Application

Partial application, or currying, is a mainstay of functional programming, and for good reason: it allows the dynamic customization of functions to fit the needs of where they are being used. Partial application allows a new function to be created out of an old function with some of its arguments pre-specified. In Coconut, partial application is done by putting a `$` in-between a function and its arguments when calling it.

Here's an example of the power of partial application in Coconut:
```
nums = range(0, 5)
expnums = map(pow$(2), nums)
print(list(expnums))
```
Try to predict what you think will be printed, then either use the interpreter or put this code in `tutorial.coc` and compile and run it to check if you were right.

### Function Composition

Another mainstay of functional programming, one very common in mathematics, is function composition, the ability to combine multiple functions into one. In Coconut, function composition is done by the `..` operator.

Here's an example of function composition:
```
zipsum = map$(sum)..zip
print(list(zipsum([1,2,3], [10,20,30])))
```
Try again to predict what you think will be printed, then test it to see if you were right.

### Pipe Forward

Another useful functional programming operator is pipe forward, which makes pipeline-style programming, where a value is fed from function to function, transformed at each step, much easier and more elegant. In Coconut, pipe forward is done by the `|>` operator.

Here's an example:
```
sq = (x) -> x**2
plus1 = (x) -> x+1
3 |> plus1 |> sq |> print
```
For all of the examples in this tutorial you should try predicting and then testing to check.

### Operator Functions

A very common thing to do in functional programming is to make use of function versions of built-in operators, currying them, composing them, and piping them. To make this easy, Coconut provides a short-hand syntax to access operator functions, where the operator is simply surrounded by parentheses to retrieve the function.

Here's an example:
```
5 |> (-)$(2) |> (*)$(2) |> print
```
_Note: If you've been dutifully guessing and checking, you probablly guessed `6` for this and were surprised to find that the actual answer was `-6`. This happens because partial application always starts with the first argument, and the first argument to `(-)` is the thing you're subtracting from, not the thing you're subtracting!_

### Backtick Calling

Another common idiom in functional programming is to write functions that are intended to behave somewhat like operators. To assist with this, Coconut provies backtick calling, where a function can be called by surrounding it with backticks, and then its arguments placed around it.

Here's an example:
```
mod = (%)
(5 `mod` 3) `print`
```

### Function Definition

Up until now, we've been using assignment to a lambda for function one-liners. While this works fine, it has some disadvantages, namely that the function will appear unnamed in any tracebacks, and both the `=` and `->` operators have to be typed out each time. To fix both of these problems, Coconut allows for mathematical function definition.

Here's an example:
```
f(x) = x**2 + x
5 |> f |> print
```

### `reduce`

A Python 2 built-in that was removed in Python 3, Coconut re-introduces `reduce`, as it can be very useful for functional programming.

Here's an example:
```
prod = reduce$((*))
range(1, 5) |> prod |> print
```

## III. Iterators

### Slicing

Another mainstay of functional programming is lazy evaluation, where sequences are only evaluated when their contents are requested, allowing for things like infinite sequences. In Python, this can be done via iterators. Unfortunately, many of the tools necessary for working with iterators just like one would work with sequences are absent.

Coconut aims to fix this, and the first part of that is Coconut's iterator slicing. Coconut's iterator slicing works much the same as Python's sequence slicing, and looks much the same as Coconut's partial application, but with brackets instead of parentheses.

Here's an example:
```
def N():
    x = 0
    while True:
        yield x # the yield statement is Python's way of constructing iterators
        x += 1

N()$[10:15] |> list |> print
```
_Note: Unlike Python's sequence slicing, Coconut's iterator slicing makes no guarantee that the original iterator be preserved (to preserve the original iterator, use Coconut's `tee` function)._

### Chaining

Another useful tool to make working with iterators as easy as working with sequences is the ability to combine multiple iterators together. This operation is called chain, and is equivalent to addition with sequences. In Coconut, chaining is done by the `::` operator.

Here's an example:
```
(range(-10, 0) :: N())$[5:15] |> list |> print
```

## IV. Values

### `data`

Another  mainstay of functional programming that Coconut improves in Python is the use of values, or immutable data types. Immutable data can be very useful because it guarantees that once you have some data it won't change, but in Python creating custom immutable data types is difficult. Coconut makes it very easy by providing `data` blocks.

The syntax for `data` blocks is a cross between the syntax for functions and the syntax for classes. The first line looks like a function definition (`data name(args):`), but the rest of the body looks like a class, usually containing method definitions. This is because while `data` blocks actually end up as classes in Python, Coconut automatically creates a special, immutable constructor based on the given `args`.

Here's an example:
```
data vector(x, y):
    def __abs__(self):
        return (self.x**2 + self.y**2)**.5

vector(1, 1) |> print # all data types come with a built-in __repr__
vector(3, 4) |> abs |> print
```

### `match`

While not only useful for working with values, pattern-matching is tailored to them, allowing the ability to check and deconstruct values. Coconut provides fully-featured pattern-matching through its `match` statements. Since `match` statements are complicated and don't have an equivalent in pure Python, it's best to simply jump right in and get a feel for them. Once you do, you'll see they make a lot of sense.

We'll start with a simple factorial function, implemented using match statements:
```
def factorial(value):
    match 0 in value:
        return 1
    match n is int in value:
        if n > 0:
            return n * factorial(n-1)
    raise TypeError("invalid argument to factorial of: "+repr(value))

3 |> factorial |> print
```
You should now be able to see the basic syntax that match statements follow: `match <pattern> in <value>`. The match statement will attempt to match the value against the pattern, and if successful, bind any variables in the pattern to whatever is in the same position in the value, and execute the code below the match statement.

What is allowed in the match statement's pattern is the thing with no equivalent in Python. The factorial function gives you a couple of examples, though: constants (`0`), variables (`n`), and optional type checks appended to variables (`is int`).

Match statements also support, in their basic syntax, an `if <cond>` that will check the condition as well as the match before executing the code below. Knowing this, we can slightly simplify our factorial function from earlier:
```
def factorial(value):
    match 0 in value:
        return 1
    match n is int in value if n > 0:
        return n * factorial(n-1)
    raise TypeError("arg to factorial must be int > 0")

3 |> factorial |> print
```

Match statements are also very useful when working with lists or tuples, as they allow them to be easily deconstructed. Here's an example:
```
def classify_sequence(value):
    match [] in value:
        return "empty"
    match [_] in value:
        return "empty"
    match [x,x] in value:
        return "duplicate pair of "+str(x)
    match [_,_]:
        return "pair"

[] |> classify_sequence |> print
() |> classify_sequence |> print
[1] |> classify_sequence |> print
(1,1) |> classify_sequence |> print
(1,2) |> classify_sequence |> print
(1,1,1) |> classify_sequence |> print
```
There are a couple of new things here that deserve attention:

First, the use of normal tuple notation to access and check agains the contents of the tuple. List notation can also be used, and both lists and tuples will match either.

Second, the use of the wildcard, `_`. Unlike other variables, like `x` in this example, `_` will never be bound to a value, and can be repeated multiple times without requiring the repeats to be the same value. Making sure all uses of the same variable are equal, however, like in `(x,x)` , is actually a very useful feature of match statements, as can be seen from this example.

Third, the use of an `else` statement on the end. This works much like else statements in other parts of Python: the code under it is only executed if the corresponding match fails.

Next, I mentioned earlier that match statements played nicely with values. Here's an example of that:
```
data point(x, y):
    def transform(self, other):
        match point(x, y) in other:
            return point(self.x + x, self.y + y)
        else:
            raise TypeError("arg to transform must be a point")
    def equals(self, other):
        match point(=self.x, =self.y) in other:
            return True
        else:
            return False

point(1,2) |> point(3,4).transform |> print
point(1,2) |> point(1,2).equals |> print
```
As you can see, matching to data types can be very useful. Values defined by the user with the `data` statement can be matched against and their contents accessed by specifically referencing arguments to the data type's constructor.

Additionally, this example demonstrates checks against predefined variables, which can be done by prefixing the variable name with an equals sign.

Even more common, however, are head-tail list or tuple deconstructions. Here's an example:
```
def duplicate_first(value):
    match l=([x] + xs) in value:
        return [x] + l
    else:
        raise TypeError()

[1,2,3] |> duplicate_first |> print
```
There are another couple new things here that deserve attention:

First, in addition to implicit bindings with variables, match statements also support explicit bindings with the equals sign.

Second, match statements allow a `+ <var>` (or `:: <var>` for any iterable) at the end of a list or tuple literal to match the rest of the sequence.

Finally, while not in any of the examples, match statements also support dictionary and set literals in their patterns, and the values of a dictionary can even be bound to, like so:
```
def dictpoint(value):
    match {"x":x is int, "y":y is int} in value:
        return (x, y)
    else:
        raise TypeError("value must be of form {'x':int, 'y':int}")

{"x":1, "y":2} |> dictpoint |> print
```

### `case`

`case` statements are simply a convenience for doing multiple `match` statements against the same value, where only one of them should succeed. They look like this:
```
def factorial(value):
    case value:
        match 0:
            return 1
        match n is int if n > 0:
            return n * factorial(n-1)
    else:
        raise TypeError("invalid argument to factorial of: "+repr(value))
```
Note the absence of an `in` in the `match` statements: that's because the `value` in `case value` is taking its place. Additionally, unlike lone match statements, only one match statement inside of a case block will ever succeed, so you should put more general matches below more specific ones.

## V. Further Reading

This tutorial was too short to be able to fully cover all the features provided by the Coconut programming language. For the full documentation, see the [DOCS](https://github.com/evhub/coconut/blob/master/DOCS.md) file.

Commit message:

Makes Coconut a true superset of Python

HELP.md, after:

# Coconut Tutorial

This tutorial will teach you how to write elegant, Pythonic code in a functional style using the [Coconut Programming Language](https://github.com/evhub/coconut). It is assumed that the reader knows some basic Python, but no other prior knowledge or experience is required.

- [I. Getting Started](#i-getting-started)
    - [Install Coconut](#install-coconut)
    - [Set Up a Workspace](#set-up-a-workspace)
    - [Start Coding!](#start-coding)
    - [Understanding Compiled Code](#understanding-compiled-code)
    - [Understanding Compiled Folders](#understanding-compiled-folders)
    - [Compile a Folder!](#compile-a-folder)
    - [Play Around!](#play-around)
- [II. Functions](#ii-functions)
    - [Lambdas](#lambdas)
    - [Partial Application](#partial-application)
    - [Function Composition](#function-composition)
    - [Pipe Forward](#pipe-forward)
    - [Operator Functions](#operator-functions)
    - [Backtick Calling](#backtick-calling)
    - [Function Definition](#function-definition)
    - [reduce](#reduce)
- [III. Iterators](#iii-iterators)
    - [Slicing](#slicing)
    - [Chaining](#chaining)
- [IV. Values](#iv-values)
    - [data](#data)
    - [match](#match)
    - [case](#case)
- [V. Further Reading](#v-further-reading)

## I. Getting Started

### Install Coconut

The first thing you're going to need to do is install Coconut. Since Coconut is hosted on the [Python Package Index](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/coconut), it can be installed easily using `pip`. Simply install [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/), open up a command line prompt, and enter the following:
```
python -m pip install coconut
```

To test that `coconut` is working, make sure the Coconut command-line help appears when you enter into the command line:
```
coconut -h
```

### Set Up a Workspace

Now that you've installed Coconut, it's time to create your first Coconut program. Open up your favorite text editor and save a new file named `tutorial.coc`. It is recommended that you tell your text editor to treat all `.coc` files as Python source files for the purpose of syntax highlighting (Coconut and Python are close enough that this will work). All Coconut files should use the extension `.coc` so they can be recognized as such when compiling folders of many different files.

### Start Coding!

If you're familiar with Python, then you're already familiar with most of Coconut: Coconut is a strict superset of Python 3 syntax. Before we get into Coconut's unique features, though, let's start with a simple `hello, world!` program. Put this code inside your `tutorial.coc`:
```
print("hello, world!")
```

Now it's time to compile the file and run it to test that it works. Open up your command line and enter in:
```
cd <tutorial.coc directory>
coconut tutorial.coc
python tutorial.py
```

If everything is working properly, you should see something like this:
```
$ coconut tutorial.coc
Coconut: Compiling '<tutorial.coc directory>'...
Coconut: Compiled '<tutorial.py directory>'.
$ python tutorial.py
hello, world!
```

### Understanding Compiled Code

If you look in your `tutorial.coc` directory, you should notice that a new file, `tutorial.py` was created when you ran the compiler. That file contains the compiled Python code, which was why you had to enter `python tutorial.py` instead of `python tutorial.coc` to run it.

Open `tutorial.py` and look inside. You should see two sections, `Coconut Header` and `Compiled Coconut`. The `Coconut Header` section contains code inserted into all compiled coconut files, whereas the `Compiled Coconut` section contains the specific code the compiler produced from your source file.

### Understanding Compiled Folders

You might have noticed that the `Coconut Header` section in `tutorial.py` is somewhat large (while Coconut tries to keep the size small, there's only so much it can do). This is because that section contains all the code necessary to set up the Coconut environment. Because Coconut needs to set up that environment in every file, it puts a header at the top.

It would be rather innefficient, however, if Coconut put that entire header in every file of a module (or other folder of files that are intended to stay together). Instead, when compiling a folder, Coconut puts all of that code in a `__coconut__.py` file in the folder directory.

### Compile a Folder!

To compile a folder this way, simply call the `coconut` command with the folder directory as the first argument. Go ahead and try it on the `tutorial.coc` directory:
```
coconut <tutorial.coc directory>
cd <tutorial.coc directory>
python tutorial.py
```
If everything is working properly, you should see exactly the same output as before.

If you now go into the `tutorial.coc` directory, however, you should see a new file, `__coconut__.py`, which contains the header from earlier in non-class form, and if you now open the `tutorial.py` file, you should see a significantly shortened header that imports the larger header file.

_Note: When compiling modules, one will often want to compile to a different location than the source. To accomplish this, simply pass the destination directory as the second argument to `coconut`, like so:_
```
coconut <source directory> <destination directory>
```

### Play Around!

As this tutorial starts introducing new concepts, it'll be useful to be able to enter Coconut code and have it compiled and run on the fly. To do this, you can start the Coconut interpreter by entering `coconut` into the console with no arguments.

## II. Functions

### Lambdas

Now that you've gotten your feet wet with a simple `hello, world!` program, but before we delve into the special things Coconut can do that Python can't, we should cover the biggest (optional) syntax change that Coconut makes over Python: better lambdas.

In Python, lambdas are ugly and bulky, requiring the entire word `lambda` to be written out every time one is constructed. This is fine if in-line functions are very rarely needed, but in functional programming in-line functions are an essential tool, and so Coconut substitues in a much simpler lambda syntax: the `->` operator.

Just to demonstrate the lambda syntax, try modifying your `hello, world!` program by adding a function defined with a lambda that prints `"hello, "+arg+"!"`, and call it with `"lambdas"` as the `arg`:
```
hello = (arg="world") -> print("hello, "+arg+"!")   # Coconut still supports Python's "def" blocks,
hello("lambdas")                                    #  but we're trying to demonstrate lambdas here
```

Then run it and test that it works:
```
$ coconut tutorial.coc
...
$ python tutorial.py
hello, lambdas!
```

### Partial Application

Partial application, or currying, is a mainstay of functional programming, and for good reason: it allows the dynamic customization of functions to fit the needs of where they are being used. Partial application allows a new function to be created out of an old function with some of its arguments pre-specified. In Coconut, partial application is done by putting a `$` in-between a function and its arguments when calling it.

Here's an example of the power of partial application in Coconut:
```
nums = range(0, 5)
expnums = map(pow$(2), nums)
print(list(expnums))
```
Try to predict what you think will be printed, then either use the interpreter or put this code in `tutorial.coc` and compile and run it to check if you were right.

### Function Composition

Another mainstay of functional programming, one very common in mathematics, is function composition, the ability to combine multiple functions into one. In Coconut, function composition is done by the `..` operator.

Here's an example of function composition:
```
zipsum = map$(sum)..zip
print(list(zipsum([1,2,3], [10,20,30])))
```
Try again to predict what you think will be printed, then test it to see if you were right.

### Pipe Forward

Another useful functional programming operator is pipe forward, which makes pipeline-style programming, where a value is fed from function to function, transformed at each step, much easier and more elegant. In Coconut, pipe forward is done by the `|>` operator.

Here's an example:
```
sq = (x) -> x**2
plus1 = (x) -> x+1
3 |> plus1 |> sq |> print
```
For all of the examples in this tutorial you should try predicting and then testing to check.

### Operator Functions

A very common thing to do in functional programming is to make use of function versions of built-in operators, currying them, composing them, and piping them. To make this easy, Coconut provides a short-hand syntax to access operator functions, where the operator is simply surrounded by parentheses to retrieve the function.

Here's an example:
```
5 |> (-)$(2) |> (*)$(2) |> print
```
_Note: If you've been dutifully guessing and checking, you probablly guessed `6` for this and were surprised to find that the actual answer was `-6`. This happens because partial application always starts with the first argument, and the first argument to `(-)` is the thing you're subtracting from, not the thing you're subtracting!_

### Backtick Calling

Another common idiom in functional programming is to write functions that are intended to behave somewhat like operators. To assist with this, Coconut provies backtick calling, where a function can be called by surrounding it with backticks, and then its arguments placed around it.

Here's an example:
```
mod = (%)
(5 `mod` 3) `print`
```

### Function Definition

Up until now, we've been using assignment to a lambda for function one-liners. While this works fine, it has some disadvantages, namely that the function will appear unnamed in any tracebacks, and both the `=` and `->` operators have to be typed out each time. To fix both of these problems, Coconut allows for mathematical function definition.

Here's an example:
```
f(x) = x**2 + x
5 |> f |> print
```

### `reduce`

A Python 2 built-in that was removed in Python 3, Coconut re-introduces `reduce`, as it can be very useful for functional programming.

Here's an example:
```
prod = reduce$((*))
range(1, 5) |> prod |> print
```

## III. Iterators

### Slicing

Another mainstay of functional programming is lazy evaluation, where sequences are only evaluated when their contents are requested, allowing for things like infinite sequences. In Python, this can be done via iterators. Unfortunately, many of the tools necessary for working with iterators just like one would work with sequences are absent.

Coconut aims to fix this, and the first part of that is Coconut's iterator slicing. Coconut's iterator slicing works much the same as Python's sequence slicing, and looks much the same as Coconut's partial application, but with brackets instead of parentheses.

Here's an example:
```
def N():
    x = 0
    while True:
        yield x # the yield statement is Python's way of constructing iterators
        x += 1

N()$[10:15] |> list |> print
```
_Note: Unlike Python's sequence slicing, Coconut's iterator slicing makes no guarantee that the original iterator be preserved (to preserve the original iterator, use Coconut's `tee` function)._

### Chaining

Another useful tool to make working with iterators as easy as working with sequences is the ability to combine multiple iterators together. This operation is called chain, and is equivalent to addition with sequences. In Coconut, chaining is done by the `::` operator.

Here's an example:
```
(range(-10, 0) :: N())$[5:15] |> list |> print
```

## IV. Values

### `data`

Another  mainstay of functional programming that Coconut improves in Python is the use of values, or immutable data types. Immutable data can be very useful because it guarantees that once you have some data it won't change, but in Python creating custom immutable data types is difficult. Coconut makes it very easy by providing `data` blocks.

The syntax for `data` blocks is a cross between the syntax for functions and the syntax for classes. The first line looks like a function definition (`data name(args):`), but the rest of the body looks like a class, usually containing method definitions. This is because while `data` blocks actually end up as classes in Python, Coconut automatically creates a special, immutable constructor based on the given `args`.

Here's an example:
```
data vector(x, y):
    def __abs__(self):
        return (self.x**2 + self.y**2)**.5

vector(1, 1) |> print # all data types come with a built-in __repr__
vector(3, 4) |> abs |> print
```

### `match`

While not only useful for working with values, pattern-matching is tailored to them, allowing the ability to check and deconstruct values. Coconut provides fully-featured pattern-matching through its `match` statements. Since `match` statements are complicated and don't have an equivalent in pure Python, it's best to simply jump right in and get a feel for them. Once you do, you'll see they make a lot of sense.

We'll start with a simple factorial function, implemented using match statements:
```
def factorial(value):
    match 0 in value:
        return 1
    match n is int in value:
        if n > 0:
            return n * factorial(n-1)
    raise TypeError("invalid argument to factorial of: "+repr(value))

3 |> factorial |> print
```
You should now be able to see the basic syntax that match statements follow: `match <pattern> in <value>`. The match statement will attempt to match the value against the pattern, and if successful, bind any variables in the pattern to whatever is in the same position in the value, and execute the code below the match statement.

What is allowed in the match statement's pattern is the thing with no equivalent in Python. The factorial function gives you a couple of examples, though: constants (`0`), variables (`n`), and optional type checks appended to variables (`is int`).

Match statements also support, in their basic syntax, an `if <cond>` that will check the condition as well as the match before executing the code below. Knowing this, we can slightly simplify our factorial function from earlier:
```
def factorial(value):
    match 0 in value:
        return 1
    match n is int in value if n > 0:
        return n * factorial(n-1)
    raise TypeError("arg to factorial must be int > 0")

3 |> factorial |> print
```

Match statements are also very useful when working with lists or tuples, as they allow them to be easily deconstructed. Here's an example:
```
def classify_sequence(value):
    match [] in value:
        return "empty"
    match [_] in value:
        return "empty"
    match [x,x] in value:
        return "duplicate pair of "+str(x)
    match [_,_]:
        return "pair"

[] |> classify_sequence |> print
() |> classify_sequence |> print
[1] |> classify_sequence |> print
(1,1) |> classify_sequence |> print
(1,2) |> classify_sequence |> print
(1,1,1) |> classify_sequence |> print
```
There are a couple of new things here that deserve attention:

First, the use of normal tuple notation to access and check agains the contents of the tuple. List notation can also be used, and both lists and tuples will match either.

Second, the use of the wildcard, `_`. Unlike other variables, like `x` in this example, `_` will never be bound to a value, and can be repeated multiple times without requiring the repeats to be the same value. Making sure all uses of the same variable are equal, however, like in `(x,x)` , is actually a very useful feature of match statements, as can be seen from this example.

Third, the use of an `else` statement on the end. This works much like else statements in other parts of Python: the code under it is only executed if the corresponding match fails.

Next, I mentioned earlier that match statements played nicely with values. Here's an example of that:
```
data point(x, y):
    def transform(self, other):
        match point(x, y) in other:
            return point(self.x + x, self.y + y)
        else:
            raise TypeError("arg to transform must be a point")
    def equals(self, other):
        match point(=self.x, =self.y) in other:
            return True
        else:
            return False

point(1,2) |> point(3,4).transform |> print
point(1,2) |> point(1,2).equals |> print
```
As you can see, matching to data types can be very useful. Values defined by the user with the `data` statement can be matched against and their contents accessed by specifically referencing arguments to the data type's constructor.

Additionally, this example demonstrates checks against predefined variables, which can be done by prefixing the variable name with an equals sign.

Even more common, however, are head-tail list or tuple deconstructions. Here's an example:
```
def duplicate_first(value):
    match l=([x] + xs) in value:
        return [x] + l
    else:
        raise TypeError()

[1,2,3] |> duplicate_first |> print
```
There are another couple new things here that deserve attention:

First, in addition to implicit bindings with variables, match statements also support explicit bindings with the equals sign.

Second, match statements allow a `+ <var>` (or `:: <var>` for any iterable) at the end of a list or tuple literal to match the rest of the sequence.

Finally, while not in any of the examples, match statements also support dictionary and set literals in their patterns, and the values of a dictionary can even be bound to, like so:
```
def dictpoint(value):
    match {"x":x is int, "y":y is int} in value:
        return (x, y)
    else:
        raise TypeError("value must be of form {'x':int, 'y':int}")

{"x":1, "y":2} |> dictpoint |> print
```

### `case`

`case` statements are simply a convenience for doing multiple `match` statements against the same value, where only one of them should succeed. They look like this:
```
def factorial(value):
    case value:
        match 0:
            return 1
        match n is int if n > 0:
            return n * factorial(n-1)
    else:
        raise TypeError("invalid argument to factorial of: "+repr(value))
```
Note the absence of an `in` in the `match` statements: that's because the `value` in `case value` is taking its place. Additionally, unlike lone match statements, only one match statement inside of a case block will ever succeed, so you should put more general matches below more specific ones.

## V. Further Reading

This tutorial was too short to be able to fully cover all the features provided by the Coconut programming language. For the full documentation, see the [DOCS](https://github.com/evhub/coconut/blob/master/DOCS.md) file.
